so for today's tutorial we're going to
be leveling up our audio visualizers
using blender 3.4
okay so welcome back to the channel
everyone uh it has been a while since we
lasted an upload uh so happy New Year
happy Christmas I hope you all had a
really good festive period uh yes we are
into February now but hey happy New Year
okay so today we're going to be looking
at uh building a really cool it's going
to be simple but it's going to be quite
a different take on the visualizer
visualizers you may have seen uh through
various tutorials will show you how to
drop a track into the um graph editor
and then that the animation take over
from there so it does react to music but
what we're going to do is something a
little bit more scientific today so
we're going to start off with blender
3.4.1 you should be okay with anything
blender free onwards so don't worry
about going to the latest anything with
geometry nodes is fine we're also going
to be operating in Eevee but uh you
could do this in Cycles it's just a lot
quicker and easy
so the first thing we've got is our
default Cube we're not going to delete
it instead we're going to go into
geometry nodes and we're going to delete
the group input so I've not deleted the
default Cube I've just changed this form
and the first thing I'm going to do
is we're going to put in a mesh Circle
and there you go you can see your circle
one meter for two vertices you can play
around with these figures and we'll have
a we'll have a look and see what happens
when you do that later but what we're
going to do now it's going to do an
instance on point so we're interested in
the points on this circle
so instance uh
points actually since it's on points
plug in there and immediately disappears
and what we want to do is we want to put
something interesting
in the
instances and we're going to put cubes
now you can
play around with this put other things
in here cylinders look quite cool as
well so straight away we have one meter
cubes only one meter ready so it looks
densely passed so let's make this
a little bit similar point one works
quite nicely and what we have is a ring
of
um a ring of Cubes but we don't want
them to point this way we're kind of
light to have them normal so what we're
going to do
is we're going to have another
control a we've got normals
I'm going to tell the computers to do is
to rotate these cubes
so that they are
aligned with the circle and then the
next one we want is a line all right a
line you lowering to Vector I want to
put the rotation into no we don't want
to put into vector
and we want to put the rotation to
rotation you can see
that's worked out quite nicely so you
can see straight away there that they're
all lined outwards from the normal you
can do this on other things like
cylinders and such like so uh it's quite
a powerful tool though very useful
for your projects
put these to one side for now
we want to do is we want to we want to
create some kind of very basic animation
effect here what we're going to do how
we're going to do that is we're going to
have our Moroni texture
and we're going to put that into the
scaling so I'll do distance to scale
there we go what you'll see there is
it's scaling all three directions now
you can yeah it's great you can do that
but the problem is when we uh when we
start to make these quite large they'll
start overlapping each other and that's
not great so
um let's put our multiply in
I want to make it a bit oh no it's math
I'm trying to write multiply it's
actually math I'm after so I plug the
math into there and let's multiply make
a big number we can see there straight
away it's going over
so that's not especially great
what we're going to do is we're going to
tell it
not that big and I only want this to go
in the Z Direction so I need to break
this scale down so if I declutter that
you can see this affects all three scale
Direction so whoops don't want to do
that I don't want to do that
so I want to break it down and to do
that we use a combine
XYZ
mode
that way
there we go and we'll make them one
there you go so it's now only affecting
in the Z Direction and that's uh that's
pretty cool I'll add that
so that is
straight into that now show me yeah you
know what let's let's do the basics just
to show
um what we're doing today so what you're
probably used to seeing if you're making
visualizers
the graph editor
what you might be used to seeing is say
uh insert keyframe
okay I've got that switched on Mission
that is switched on and you go to key
to do bake sales to ref curves and let's
just
move this over here so
we'll have a need to get a better filing
system
there we go
now I've picked this track uh Patrick
patricus patricus even sorry Dark Side
very cool track what you're used to
seeing is it's probably something like
that where you just drop that in and we
can play around with some of these
numbers
all right well sometimes looks pretty
cool
there we go
and that's that's tip that's that is
your absolute Bare Basics visualizer and
you know that's that's pretty cool it'll
uh it'll react it looks pretty good
against the music the problem is though
it's every layer of that track so if I
was to let's stop this you can actually
hear it and what I'm going to do now is
go to video sequence I know I don't I
want to go into video sequencer
hmm I do want to go to video sequels up
there something a bit creepy going on
there that's weird
okay let's go back to that screen and do
it here
creepy weird stuff
put video sequence uh and then if I go
back to my file
and I just drop
that track in there
and then we play it
foreign
there's a lot of things going on and
what we want to do is uh not necessarily
have this particular beam react to
everything we want it to react to
certain parts of it so let's go back
into our graph editor let's go back to
geometry nodes and let's just kill that
one clear keyframes now what we want to
do is uh let's leave Patrick petricos's
dark side in there it's uh free to
download from YouTube studio
um there's plenty of versions of it
online as well
um what I want to do there is we want to
break this down into its kind of Sub sub
level so individual instruments and I
found a really cool website to do that
um it's called
Moises and essentially what you do is
um it's it's free for a limited number
of tracks
um what you do you drop your track in
you get it to do a track separation and
then it'll spit out another folder and
in that folder
it will divide
your track into each of these individual
bits so if I was to click that one
[Music]
okay
same with that one
and miniature
and finally this one
[Music]
so subdivided it so what we're going to
do now is we're going to do something
very similar to what you typically used
to see through other visualizer
um
tutorials but this time we're going to
divide it so I'm going to insert
keyframe again but this time
I want to make sure that's letting make
sure that's selected insert keyframe
make a sound
and I want to do that one
so now
when I go to timeline
it's not immediately obvious but when we
start adding more detail
now let's move this one over here
D down to there and then
join
geometry
there
now what we want to do is we're creating
another Circle so we're going to make
this one let's say 0.75
you can see that it's now created two
rows
of rfx
play around perhaps make that a little
bit bigger
and on this one
I always like to put it back to zero
there there's another insert keyframe
graph editor
again oops make sure that that is
connected that's selected and that's
selected at the same time
and then fake sound and we go for that
bit there
so that middle bit is there reacting to
it and you can
play around with the scaling there as
well to make you do some pretty funky
funky things and then let's add a final
yep 50.
a little bit of organization you might
find that some of these cubes and some
of these
um
nodes can actually be common nodes
okay
and then same again go back to zero
and we want to make that one a little
bit bigger so let's make it 1.25
I want to bring that down
a little bit lower
and then insert a keyframe
and again
I was going to show that selected and
that's selected
and the final bit there
you can see that that one is quite a bit
lower
so it's
going to react like that that's pretty
cool and yeah that is your fundamental
absolute basic uh engine behind this uh
so let's start adding some more details
so we're going to do some a set
material
I'm going to put that there I'm going to
50 50 shift
d
put them in there
what I'm going to do is we want to go to
this I'm going to do something very
basic here and we're just going to color
this
uh inners
go to that create a kind of silver see
OCR CEO
and oops if we actually can see what I'm
doing
and there's
inners and I what I'm going to do let's
switch the same it's that mode there
I want to make it shiny so that's a
metallic it's down the roughness
um
as well
Reflections so like this
zoom in there and let's make the
background really dark
okay
that doesn't look
tremendously impressive yet however
we're about to weave some magic
let's go to one of these what I'm going
to do is we're going to create a bit of
a light effect around each one of these
so we want to go to uh measured curve
you've seen me do this before if you're
a fan of the channel
let's put that to there uh curve to mesh
and let's put that down to Children
geometry
so that's created another band uh it's
around this middle one here it says you
can't see it yet but it is there
and what we're going to do is we're
going to go Circle
curve a curved Circle or the other it's
gonna go crazy there and we'll make that
tiny
about that so you could just about see
a line around this
okay
I'm going to do is go set material again
go into our materials new material uh
let's call it beam one
and what I'm going to do is a very
simple emission
B1
go to there I make it sound five
way around
I quite like the effect the way that's
kind of bouncing up
it's animated
it looks really cool there
of course you could play around with
this
okay so also before you go any further
just make sure you've got switched on
Bloom and Subspace Reflections and that
allows the light to bounce off even in
either mode it allows the amounts from
emission to go into these parties so
let's just copy that
so shift e and I need to go down here
somewhere oh dear
easier if I just do that
join
beam one and let's create some more
let's do that very quickly
could just do it this way actually a lot
quicker
into shading
copy copy
two and let's change that to
you
helps if you have it switched on
into
and just play around
play around with it
same again
shift d down here
connect up to there
and in you go
let's make that one another one shading
duplicate again and then three
[Music]
again it helps if you actually select
them
three
okay so that is fundamentally
your uh your basic layout just
checking what we did before
this
do a value
it's quite useful if you want to make
everything consistent
Circle
one
there we go actually that's quite cool
that one
over there so that is
very quickly
there we go
[Music]
so you can see here now
let's close that up you can see here now
how each one of these is kind of is
reacting to a different part of that
instrument essentially it's divide we've
divided the track into its individual
instruments and then assigned it to a
particular uh part of the visualizer and
I think that looks really quite cool
actually so
um one last thing we're going to do to
our geometry node
I'll have to put a little ring around
this so I'm gonna go
let's find a little bit of space in fact
let's move this up here
look we're done we've done all that
stuff down there and we're going to do a
mesh curve
my circle even let's plug that straight
into there
let's make that a bit wider this
actually rig it so you can see it um I
think I've got a bit too far there too
1.5
1.75 yeah 1.75 and then it's
kind of dimash
care Circle
looks like a jam donut let's move that a
little bit easier to see it doesn't need
to be as big as that
again play around
to your heart's content
hey
actually that's the point we're gonna
very quickly play around with that
number don't we let's just add a value
let's put it into there
oops
it's around here somewhere
32 32.
1 up to there
okay so if I zoom in now
let's just see what happens
so we can start making let's say 62 it's
making pretty big
quite a lot going on there but you can
see by having uh by having more of these
vertices than uh
it does populate a bit more it makes it
look a bit smoother final thing we're
going to do is we're going to add
a bit of
set material
submit set material and go into your
shading Tab and the one we're just We're
not gonna go special crazy we're just
going to do that
and let's make that
let's see there
always remember
to set
so there you go that is your absolute
basic
um visualizer with a bit of a Twist and
of course there are a variety of things
you can do to the background to make it
stand out a bit more
um but yeah that's that's essentially it
so let's put this up on screen so just
to go through it one more time you only
really need to worry about one of these
um
we start off with our mesh Circle
instance to points we put a cube into
there you can put any anything you want
in there you could put cylinders you can
put up spheres even a bespoke geometry
in there if you wanted uh then we added
uh I um
there we go the Align to Vector
um
node set to normal so they're all
pointed outwards put that into position
scaling over even rather rotation the
scaling we want to multiply vorado
texture we used
this minnowski
voronoy you can use anything you want
wave textures work brilliantly as well
um we applied it in the Z Direction and
then we have essentially two bands now
where we go right I want to get the kind
of a line around each of these cubes and
I want to animate that with a beam or a
Illuminating with a beam and then we've
got this finally put it in the rain and
that is just kind of a
in fact this if you have the
computational Firepower
you could set this to uh
500 I said that let's let's just make it
200. I found actually that the image
looks pretty cool even as a standalone
so that's not a bad background
um let's see so if that looks a bit dull
at the moment if you put it to EV mode
we've turned our blooms on so
it should be pretty quick this
point three of a second that looks
pretty cool as is but if you were to go
into compositing
and add
just a simple glare
set it to fog glow
just to see there and then we hit the
render make sure you use mode to switch
on hit the render again but on your
Cycles GPU compute is important have
that set to like it doesn't need to be 4
000. why blender does that
turn that on
so it takes a little bit longer to run
it's now going to do that that looks
pretty pretty cool as well so there's a
wealth of things the other problem is
that's going to take five seconds now
normally a music track is going to be
about three minutes uh 24
frames so that is going to take a
mountain of time to animate as a uh as
an animation uh so um yeah probably best
to stick to Evie really
so let's stick to EV and the way to the
way to Output this if you if you're
curious is you uh let's pick a location
that's you know temp files fine
um
there's your eyes are
one
except you want to switch that one to
MPEG I find these these work really best
for me mpeg-4
um so it's medium quality I like
perceptually lossless
and MP3 and that's it off you go and
that is pretty much it the only other
thing to add is that uh for the music we
want to make sure we get it all in
uh actually helps to film the video
there we go so you can see this track
dark side goes quite far so you just
want to make sure that you do indeed
capture the whole night I think the
quick quick sum is two point let's say
2.75 times 24 times 60 so it's 24 frames
per second 60 seconds two two in a bit
minutes it's going to go over line and
just drag that back until it lines up
and when you're happy hit the go button
and there you go it will it will animate
that and um yeah that'll look pretty
pretty cool when it's done
foreign
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
[Applause]
thank you